packages/vike-vue-pinia/README.md, before:

<!-- WARNING: keep links absolute in this file so they work on NPM too -->

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vike-vue-pinia)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vike-vue-pinia)

# `vike-vue-pinia`

Integrates [Pinia](https://pinia.vuejs.org) into your [`vike-vue`](https://vike.dev/vike-vue) app.

<br/>

**Table of Contents**

[Installation](#installation)  
[Basic usage](#basic-usage)  
[Example](#example)  
[Pinia plugins](#pinia-plugins)  
[Populate store with `+data`](#populate-store-with-data)  
[Version history](#version-history)  
[See also](#see-also)  

<br/>

## Installation

1. `npm install vike-vue-pinia pinia`
2. Extend `+config.js`:
   ```js
   // pages/+config.js

   import vikeVue from 'vike-vue/config'
   import vikeVuePinia from 'vike-vue-pinia/config'

   export default {
     // ...
     extends: [vikeVue, vikeVuePinia]
   }
   ```

> [!NOTE]
> The `vike-vue-pinia` extension requires [`vike-vue`](https://vike.dev/vike-vue).

<br/>

# Basic usage

```js
// stores/useCounterStore.ts

import { defineStore } from 'pinia'
import { ref } from 'vue'

export const useCounterStore = defineStore('counter', () => {
  const count = ref(0)
  const increment = () => count.value++
  return { count, increment }
})
```

```vue
<!-- components/Counter.vue -->

<template>
  <button type="button" @click="counterStore.increment">
    Counter {{ counterStore.count }}
  </button>
</template>

<script setup>
import { useCounterStore } from '../stores/useCounterStore'
const counterStore = useCounterStore()
</script>
```

<br/>

## Example

See [examples/vue-pinia/](https://github.com/vikejs/vike-vue/tree/main/examples/vue-pinia).

<br/>

## Pinia plugins

You can install Pinia plugins (e.g. [`pinia-plugin-persistedstate`](https://prazdevs.github.io/pinia-plugin-persistedstate/)) by using `vike-vue-pinia'`s `+onCreatePinia` hook.

```ts
// pages/+onCreatePinia.ts

import piniaPlugin from 'pinia-awesome-plugin'
import type { PageContext } from 'vike/types'

export async function onCreatePinia(pageContext: PageContext) {
  pageContext.pinia.use(piniaPlugin)
}
```

> [!TIP]
> For client-only plugins, you can use [`.client.js`](https://vike.dev/file-env) or [`pageContext.isClientSide`](https://vike.dev/pageContext#typescript).

<br/>

## Populate store with `+data`

To populate your store with data fetched via the [`+data`](https://vike.dev/data) hook, use [`+onData`](https://vike.dev/onData) and [`pageContext.data`](https://vike.dev/pageContext#data).

```ts
// pages/todos/+onData.ts
// Environment: server, client

export { onData }

import type { PageContext } from 'vike/types'
import type { Data } from './+data'
import { useTodoStore } from '../../stores/useTodoStore'

function onData(pageContext: PageContext & { data?: Data }) {
  const { initTodos } = useTodoStore(pageContext.pinia!)
  initTodos(pageContext.data!.todosInit)

  // Saving KBs: we don't need pageContext.data (we use the store instead)
  // - If we don't delete pageContext.data then Vike sends pageContext.data to the client-side
  // - This optimization only works with SSR: if the page is pre-rendered then don't do this
  delete pageContext.data
}
```

See complete To-Do List example at [examples/vue-pinia](https://github.com/vikejs/vike-vue/tree/main/examples/vue-pinia).

> [!NOTE]
> During [SSR](https://vike.dev/ssr), `+onData` is called only on the server — the store's initial state (set by `initTodos()`) is automatically sent to the client, so you don't need to populate the store again on the client.
>
> This approach prevents [hydration mismatches](https://vike.dev/hydration-mismatch), as it ensures the client has the exact same initial state as the server during SSR.

<br/>

## Version history

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/vikejs/vike-vue/blob/main/packages/vike-vue-pinia/CHANGELOG.md).

<br/>

## See also

- [Vike Docs > Pinia](https://vike.dev/pinia)

Commit message:

docs: add persistence recommendation (vikejs/vike#2881) (#225)

packages/vike-vue-pinia/README.md, after:

<!-- WARNING: keep links absolute in this file so they work on NPM too -->

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vike-vue-pinia)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vike-vue-pinia)

# `vike-vue-pinia`

Integrates [Pinia](https://pinia.vuejs.org) into your [`vike-vue`](https://vike.dev/vike-vue) app.

<br/>

**Table of Contents**

[Installation](#installation)  
[Basic usage](#basic-usage)  
[Example](#example)  
[Pinia plugins](#pinia-plugins)  
[Persistence](#persistence)  
[Populate store with `+data`](#populate-store-with-data)  
[Version history](#version-history)  
[See also](#see-also)  

<br/>

## Installation

1. `npm install vike-vue-pinia pinia`
2. Extend `+config.js`:
   ```js
   // pages/+config.js

   import vikeVue from 'vike-vue/config'
   import vikeVuePinia from 'vike-vue-pinia/config'

   export default {
     // ...
     extends: [vikeVue, vikeVuePinia]
   }
   ```

> [!NOTE]
> The `vike-vue-pinia` extension requires [`vike-vue`](https://vike.dev/vike-vue).

<br/>

# Basic usage

```js
// stores/useCounterStore.ts

import { defineStore } from 'pinia'
import { ref } from 'vue'

export const useCounterStore = defineStore('counter', () => {
  const count = ref(0)
  const increment = () => count.value++
  return { count, increment }
})
```

```vue
<!-- components/Counter.vue -->

<template>
  <button type="button" @click="counterStore.increment">
    Counter {{ counterStore.count }}
  </button>
</template>

<script setup>
import { useCounterStore } from '../stores/useCounterStore'
const counterStore = useCounterStore()
</script>
```

<br/>

## Example

See [examples/vue-pinia/](https://github.com/vikejs/vike-vue/tree/main/examples/vue-pinia).

<br/>

## Pinia plugins

You can install Pinia plugins (e.g. [`pinia-plugin-persistedstate`](https://prazdevs.github.io/pinia-plugin-persistedstate/)) by using `vike-vue-pinia'`s `+onCreatePinia` hook.

```ts
// pages/+onCreatePinia.ts

import piniaPlugin from 'pinia-awesome-plugin'
import type { PageContext } from 'vike/types'

export async function onCreatePinia(pageContext: PageContext) {
  pageContext.pinia.use(piniaPlugin)
}
```

> [!TIP]
> For client-only plugins, you can use [`.client.js`](https://vike.dev/file-env) or [`pageContext.isClientSide`](https://vike.dev/pageContext#typescript).

<br/>

## Persistence

You can use `vike-vue-pinia` with Pinia plugins that persist your store to [`localStorage`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage), [cookies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_cookie), etc.

> [!TIP]
> See [Pinia plugins](#pinia-plugins) for how to install Pinia plugins.

If you use [SSR](https://vike.dev/ssr) and want to persist to `localStorage`, [the general recommendation](https://github.com/prazdevs/pinia-plugin-persistedstate/issues/304#issuecomment-2141560888) is to use [`clientOnly()`](https://vike.dev/clientOnly) to avoid a [hydration mismatch](https://vike.dev/hydration-mismatch). Alternatively, you can persist to cookies — state that is stored in cookies is passed to the server and can be server-side rendered.

<br/>

## Populate store with `+data`

To populate your store with data fetched via the [`+data`](https://vike.dev/data) hook, use [`+onData`](https://vike.dev/onData) and [`pageContext.data`](https://vike.dev/pageContext#data).

```ts
// pages/todos/+onData.ts
// Environment: server, client

export { onData }

import type { PageContext } from 'vike/types'
import type { Data } from './+data'
import { useTodoStore } from '../../stores/useTodoStore'

function onData(pageContext: PageContext & { data?: Data }) {
  const { initTodos } = useTodoStore(pageContext.pinia!)
  initTodos(pageContext.data!.todosInit)

  // Saving KBs: we don't need pageContext.data (we use the store instead)
  // - If we don't delete pageContext.data then Vike sends pageContext.data to the client-side
  // - This optimization only works with SSR: if the page is pre-rendered then don't do this
  delete pageContext.data
}
```

See complete To-Do List example at [examples/vue-pinia](https://github.com/vikejs/vike-vue/tree/main/examples/vue-pinia).

> [!NOTE]
> During [SSR](https://vike.dev/ssr), `+onData` is called only on the server — the store's initial state (set by `initTodos()`) is automatically sent to the client, so you don't need to populate the store again on the client.
>
> This approach prevents [hydration mismatches](https://vike.dev/hydration-mismatch), as it ensures the client has the exact same initial state as the server during SSR.

<br/>

## Version history

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/vikejs/vike-vue/blob/main/packages/vike-vue-pinia/CHANGELOG.md).

<br/>

## See also

- [Vike Docs > Pinia](https://vike.dev/pinia)
